jQuery = JavaScripts libraray
=> it is writeless do mode js library hai
=>jQuery simples javascript code in one line
dom
=>compressed version
install- npm i jquery
donload and save file "js/jquery-3.7.1.min.js" in make js folder thane add
"$" this is short cort of jquery and also syntax of jquery $(jQuery)
jQuery CDN=>content delivery network ye content dega internet ke help se serve jQuery
types of cdn like jQuery cdn, google cdn, microsoft cdn 
document.ready ke andar jab code tayar tab run code ho mera
index1.html inside jquery and js dono ak sath
index.html as external js code for both diffetent js and jQuery achhi practice all java scripts code write in one js folder like external use

#Question
The purpose of jQuery is to make it much easier to use JavaScript on your website.
What You Should Already Know Before you start studying jQuery, you should have a basic
knowledge of: HTML CSS JavaScript 
If you want to study these subjects first, find the tutorials on our Home page. 

What is jQuery?
jQuery is a lightweight, "write less, do more", JavaScript library. 

The purpose of jQuery is to make it much easier to use JavaScript on your website. 

jQuery takes a lot of common tasks that require many lines of JavaScript code to accomplish, 
and wraps them into methods that you can call with a single line of code.

jQuery also simplifies a lot of the complicated things from JavaScript, 
like AJAX calls and DOM manipulation.

The jQuery library contains the following features:-
HTML/DOM manipulation ,CSS manipulation ,HTML event methods ,Effects and animations ,AJAX ,Utilities.

Tip: In addition, jQuery has plugins for almost any task out there. 

Why jQuery?
There are lots of other JavaScript libraries out there, but jQuery is probably the most popular, 
and also the most extendable.
Many of the biggest companies on the Web use jQuery, such as: 
Google, Microsoft, IBM ,Netflix
 
Will jQuery work in all browsers?
The jQuery team knows all about cross-browser issues, 
and they have written this knowledge into the jQuery library.
jQuery will run exactly the same in all major browsers.