#source control/versition control in git.
Ans->versition control is the process of tracking and managing of software ya website code.
it is a software tool which are tracking the code of source code changeg.
=>versition control is a type of database that has all the versition of source code. nazar rakhta hai.
=>it is used to fixed old change restore if developer has mistake.
Q>git
Git is a distributed version control system that tracks changes in any set of computer files, 
usually used for coordinating work among programmers who are collaboratively developing source
code during… .
=>Distributed Version Control Systems (DVCS): (e.g., Git) Store a complete copy of the codebase
on each user's machine. This allows offline work and more complex branching strategies.

=>Centralized Version Control Systems (CVCS): (e.g., SVN) Use a central server to store all
versions of the code. Users interact with the server to make changes and access history.

=>Git is a powerful tool that can be used for a variety of tasks, including tracking changes 
to source code, managing multiple branches of code, collaborating with other developers, 
creating and maintaining releases, and deploying code to production. Git is a complex tool,
but it is well worth learning if you are serious about software development.
=>Git and Github difference.
Ans=>Git is a version control system that allows developers to track changes in their code.
GitHub is a web-based hosting service for git repositories. In simple terms, you can use git 
without Github, but you cannot use GitHub without Git.
------------------------------------------------------

Q-Familiarity with various testing tools.
Ans->Types of Testing Tools:
1.Automation tools: These automate repetitive tasks like regression testing, saving time and
effort. Examples include Selenium, Cypress, Appium, Katalon Studio, SoapUI, etc.
2.Performance testing tools: These measure an application's performance under load,
identifying bottlenecks. Examples include Apache JMeter, LoadRunner, K6, etc.
3.Security testing tools: These identify vulnerabilities in applications and systems. Examples
include Burp Suite, Nessus, Acunetix, etc.
4.API testing tools: These test APIs for functionality, performance, and security. Examples 
include Postman, SoapUI, RestAssured, etc.
5.Mobile testing tools: These test mobile applications on various devices and platforms. 
Examples include Appium, Espresso, XCTest, etc.

----------------------------------------------------
git cmd->
init=it is used to inatily when project is started
pull=it is used to when come any project reporistry to my localhost for run 
checkout=it is used to make other braanch apart from master branches.
push karne se pahle
git add.=all change reflect
git add=only specific change reflect
git commit -m "message"
git status
git checkout

-------------------------------------------------------
Agile Methodology: A Step-by-Step Guide
Agile methodologies are iterative and adaptive approaches to project management, emphasizing collaboration, flexibility, and continuous improvement. While specific frameworks vary, here's a general step-by-step outline:

1. Envision & Planning:

Define Project Vision: Clearly articulate the project's overall goal and value proposition.
Identify Stakeholders: Determine all individuals or groups impacted by the project.
Build a Team: Assemble a cross-functional team with diverse skills and perspectives.
Create a Product Backlog: Prioritize a list of user stories or features representing the desired product outcome.
Estimate Effort & Time: Estimate the time and resources needed for each backlog item.
2. Iteration Cycles:

Start with a Sprint: Define a short, time-boxed period (usually 1-4 weeks) for focused work.
Select Sprint Backlog: Choose high-priority items from the Product Backlog that fit within the sprint timeframe.
Daily Standup Meetings: Brief daily meetings (15 minutes) for team members to share progress and identify roadblocks.
Develop, Test, Review & Iterate:
Team works on assigned tasks within the sprint.
Continuous integration and testing ensure quality and early feedback.
Daily standups allow for adjustments and course corrections.
Sprint Review: Showcase the sprint's completed work and gather feedback from stakeholders.
Sprint Retrospective: Analyze the sprint's successes and challenges to improve future iterations.
3. Continuous Delivery:

Regularly Deliver Value: Aim for frequent, working deliverables after each sprint.
Automate Tasks: Use tools and automation to streamline build, testing, and deployment processes.
Monitor Progress & Adapt: Continuously monitor progress, gather feedback, and adjust plans as needed.
4. Key Agile Principles:

Individuals and interactions over processes and tools
Working software over comprehensive documentation
Customer collaboration over contract negotiation
Responding to change over following a plan
Remember: Agile is not a rigid formula, but rather a set of principles and practices that can be adapted to your specific needs and project context. By embracing collaboration, flexibility, and continuous improvement, you can unlock the benefits of Agile methodologies and deliver value faster and more effectively.

Additional Tips:

Start small and scale up as you gain experience.
Use visual tools like Kanban boards to track progress.
Foster a culture of open communication and transparency.
Celebrate successes and learn from failures.
I hope this provides a helpful overview of Agile methodologies!
-------------------------------

--------------------------------------set git confiog in vscode----------------
git config --global user.email y*********@gmail.com
git config --global user.name Y*********




